docs/build_instructions.md, before:

---
title: Building Crazyflie 2.0 firmware
page_id: build_instructions
---

## Dependencies

You'll need to use either the [Crazyflie VM](https://wiki.bitcraze.io/projects:virtualmachine:index),
[the toolbelt](https://wiki.bitcraze.io/projects:dockerbuilderimage:index) or 
install some ARM toolchain.

### Install a toolchain

#### OS X
```bash
brew tap PX4/homebrew-px4
brew install gcc-arm-none-eabi
```

#### Debian/Ubuntu

Tested on Ubuntu 14.04 64b, Ubuntu 16.04 64b, and Ubuntu 18.04 64b:

For Ubuntu 14.04 :

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:terry.guo/gcc-arm-embedded
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install libnewlib-arm-none-eabi
```

For Ubuntu 16.04 and Ubuntu 18.04:

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:team-gcc-arm-embedded/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt install gcc-arm-embedded
```

Note: Do not use the `gcc-arm-none-eabi` package that is part of the Ubuntu repository as this is outdated.

#### Arch Linux

```bash
sudo pacman -S community/arm-none-eabi-gcc community/arm-none-eabi-gdb community/arm-none-eabi-newlib
```

#### Windows

The GCC ARM Embedded toolchain for Windows is available at [launchpad.net](https://launchpad.net/gcc-arm-embedded/+download). Download the zip archive rather than the executable installer. There are a few different systems for running UNIX-style shells and build systems on Windows; the instructions below are for [Cygwin](https://www.cygwin.com/).

Install Cygwin with [setup-x86_64.exe](https://www.cygwin.com/setup-x86_64.exe). Use the standard `C:\cygwin64` installation directory and install at least the `make` and `git` packages.

Download the latest `gcc-arm-none-eabi-*-win32.zip` archive from [launchpad.net](https://launchpad.net/gcc-arm-embedded/+download). Create the directory `C:\cygwin64\opt\gcc-arm-none-eabi` and extract the contents of the zip file to it.

Launch a Cygwin terminal and run the following to append to your `~/.bashrc` file:
```bash
echo '[[ $PATH == */opt/gcc-arm-none-eabi/bin* ]] || export PATH=/opt/gcc-arm-none-eabi/bin:$PATH' >>~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc
```

Verify the toolchain installation with `arm-none-eabi-gcc --version`

### Cloning

This repository uses git submodules. Clone with the `--recursive` flag

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-firmware.git
```

If you already have cloned the repo without the `--recursive` option, you need to 
get the submodules manually

```bash
cd crazyflie-firmware
git submodule init
git submodule update
```


## Compiling

### Crazyflie 2.X

This is the default build so just running ```make``` is enough or:
```bash
make PLATFORM=cf2
```

or with the toolbelt

```bash
tb make PLATFORM=cf2
```

### Roadrunner

Use the ```tag``` platform

```bash
make PLATFORM=tag
```

or with the toolbelt

```bash
tb make PLATFORM=tag
```


### config.mk
To create custom build options create a file called `config.mk` in the `tools/make/`
folder and fill it with options. E.g. 
```
PLATFORM=CF2
DEBUG=1
CLOAD=0
```
More information can be found on the 
[Bitcraze wiki](http://wiki.bitcraze.io/projects:crazyflie2:index)

# Make targets:
```
all        : Shortcut for build
compile    : Compile cflie.hex. WARNING: Do NOT update version.c
build      : Update version.c and compile cflie.elf/hex
clean_o    : Clean only the Objects files, keep the executables (ie .elf, .hex)
clean      : Clean every compiled files
mrproper   : Clean every compiled files and the classical editors backup files

cload      : If the crazyflie-clients-python is placed on the same directory level and 
             the Crazyradio/Crazyradio PA is inserted it will try to flash the firmware 
             using the wireless bootloader.
flash      : Flash .elf using OpenOCD
halt       : Halt the target using OpenOCD
reset      : Reset the target using OpenOCD
openocd    : Launch OpenOCD
```

Commit message:

Build instructions for Windows updated

docs/build_instructions.md, after:

---
title: Building Crazyflie 2.0 firmware
page_id: build_instructions
---

## Dependencies

You'll need to use either the [Crazyflie VM](https://wiki.bitcraze.io/projects:virtualmachine:index),
[the toolbelt](https://wiki.bitcraze.io/projects:dockerbuilderimage:index) or 
install some ARM toolchain.

### Install a toolchain

#### OS X
```bash
brew tap PX4/homebrew-px4
brew install gcc-arm-none-eabi
```

#### Debian/Ubuntu

Tested on Ubuntu 14.04 64b, Ubuntu 16.04 64b, and Ubuntu 18.04 64b:

For Ubuntu 14.04 :

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:terry.guo/gcc-arm-embedded
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install libnewlib-arm-none-eabi
```

For Ubuntu 16.04 and Ubuntu 18.04:

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:team-gcc-arm-embedded/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt install gcc-arm-embedded
```

Note: Do not use the `gcc-arm-none-eabi` package that is part of the Ubuntu repository as this is outdated.

#### Arch Linux

```bash
sudo pacman -S community/arm-none-eabi-gcc community/arm-none-eabi-gdb community/arm-none-eabi-newlib
```

#### Windows

In Windows 10, the firmware can be developed within the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL). The following guide is writtent for Ubuntu 18.04:

In Windows Store, install Ubuntu.

In Ubuntu WSL, install git & make:

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt install git
sudo apt install make
```

Further install the toolchain as in native Ubuntu (16.04 / 18.04)
```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:team-gcc-arm-embedded/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt install gcc-arm-embedded
```

### Cloning

This repository uses git submodules. Clone with the `--recursive` flag

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/bitcraze/crazyflie-firmware.git
```

If you already have cloned the repo without the `--recursive` option, you need to 
get the submodules manually

```bash
cd crazyflie-firmware
git submodule init
git submodule update
```


## Compiling

### Crazyflie 2.X

This is the default build so just running ```make``` is enough or:
```bash
make PLATFORM=cf2
```

or with the toolbelt

```bash
tb make PLATFORM=cf2
```

### Roadrunner

Use the ```tag``` platform

```bash
make PLATFORM=tag
```

or with the toolbelt

```bash
tb make PLATFORM=tag
```


### config.mk
To create custom build options create a file called `config.mk` in the `tools/make/`
folder and fill it with options. E.g. 
```
PLATFORM=CF2
DEBUG=1
CLOAD=0
```
More information can be found on the 
[Bitcraze wiki](http://wiki.bitcraze.io/projects:crazyflie2:index)

# Make targets:
```
all        : Shortcut for build
compile    : Compile cflie.hex. WARNING: Do NOT update version.c
build      : Update version.c and compile cflie.elf/hex
clean_o    : Clean only the Objects files, keep the executables (ie .elf, .hex)
clean      : Clean every compiled files
mrproper   : Clean every compiled files and the classical editors backup files

cload      : If the crazyflie-clients-python is placed on the same directory level and 
             the Crazyradio/Crazyradio PA is inserted it will try to flash the firmware 
             using the wireless bootloader.
flash      : Flash .elf using OpenOCD
halt       : Halt the target using OpenOCD
reset      : Reset the target using OpenOCD
openocd    : Launch OpenOCD
```
